+++
title = "Migrating my code to Codeberg"
authors = [ "stuff@eldred.fr (ISSOtm)" ]

[extra]
breadcrumb = "Codeberg migration"
+++

I have decided to move my code repositories from GitHub to [Codeberg].

<!-- more -->

This comes following mounting pressure from GitHub pushing AI solutions harder and harder, the ethical and ecological consequences of which I disagree with; partnering with Elon Musk (Grok now being supported); [and more](https://www.5snb.club/posts/2025/getting-out).

I simply don't agree with that platform's policies, and so wish to pull out, as a form of protest as well.
And I've also decided to put my money where my mouth is: I am now donating to Codeberg as well, because they aren't assholes and they're trying to do the right thing.
So they deserve it.

## Practical considerations

As much as I wish I could magically delete everything and break nothing, I can't.
My forks of GitHub-hosted repos will have to stay so that PRs don't break (but I've deleted stale forks), and there are also links out there pointing at various repos of mine; so, I've elected to replace the migrated repos with a notice that they're migrated, and a link to this post to explain my rationale.

This very website will also have to remain hosted by GitHub Pages for the time being, especially for some sub-directories.
I hope to find a better solution soon enough.

I hope that as links are updated to point at the new source of truth, I can start deleting repos, and (maybe?) eventually my account.
Or who knows, GitHub might turn around.
Or pigs might grow wings.

[Codeberg]: https://codeberg.org/ISSOtm
